so back to python for the real working nych protocol engine... Heres my latest canonical rule set : 1. modality operators are invariant
2.👀 external visual/optical👁️internal visual/optical👂🏼👂🏼external auditory 👂🏼internal auditory💪🏼💪🏼external kinesthetic💪🏼internal kinesthetic👃👃external smell 👅internal taste🧠mental🗯️imagine🧠mental💭remember
    a. The first processing done is to determine the narrative perspective, tense, pronouns,  domain, subject and subdomains which include specialties which are made up of functions made up of techniques which terminate as object actor, action T.O.T.E loops Example  : hammer the nail becomes 👀 📌  👁️ 📌(nailed down)  if  👀 📌=  👁️ 📌   exit loop else swing   💪🏼💪🏼🔨 every prompt has a domain which is synonymous with subject (matter) for the purposes of Nych protocol.  For example Medical domain specialties are everything from doctor to intern.
b. This will begin to produce a mind map or tree of the conversation and the gestalt of problem space. The domain and subdomains and everything within will begin to populate a hierarchical domain database and ultimately a TOTE loop database of human behaviors that are formulaic symbolic representations that allow the model to infer intent when invoked.  
3. All other words that can be reduced to a single symbol by gestalt match are converted and vowels omitted and double consonants the resulting string is appended to the symbol trace id or individual instance number tbd.
         a. This is the point in the pipeline that the competency check is performed using vernacular to ascertain if the user is highly competent or a novice therefore pruning response vector to accommodate the anticipated response space. Unnecessary explanation and under explanation can be avoided. Also novice information is more broad strokes, while expert responses are pointed and speak to the mastery etc...
        b. An Inverse transform is performed which is a prune of all domains outside the relevant domain(s) with special attention heads on the admissible transforms that cross this boundary yet end with state representations that are a match to the target state rep. I thinnk I explained inverse transform correctly but at this point we have tokenized and symbolized and we are ready for the softmax step of symbolic relational compression. Fast track and slow track. basically after hammer the nail becomes a widely accepted TOTE loop (det by efficacy of exiting loop) The internal visual check for imagined image of nail nailed down is skipped because the state is known and achievable without the internal check instead it becomes a check external for nail up if true swing hammer. Fast track omits reliably consistent modality operators while slow track loops back every x amount of processing to ensure congruence wit context (surrounding symbols and there direct relationships to neighboring symbols.  
